.TH GNUMED 1 "2007 January 28" "Manual for gm_ctl_client"

.SH NAME
.B gm_ctl_client
- GNUmed XML-RPC connector for legacy applications

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gm_ctl_client
.RB [--log-file=FILE]
.RB [--conf-file=FILE]
.RB [--text-domain=TEXTDOMAIN]
.RB [--lang-gettext=LANGUAGE]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gm_ctl_client
is a small helper program acting as a client for the XML-RPC
API of the GNUmed client.

This API can be used by 3rd-Party software to remote control
a GNUmed client.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.B \--text-domain=TEXTDOMAIN
Set this to change the name of the language file to be loaded.
Note, this does not change the directory the file is searched in,
only the name of the file where messages are loaded from. The
standard textdomain is, of course, "gnumed.mo". You need only
specify the base name of the file without the .mo extension.
.TP
.B \--log-file=FILE
Use this to change the name of the log file. The default
log file would be <~/.gnumed/gnumed.log>.
.TP
.B \--conf-file=FILE
Use configuration file FILE instead of searching for it in
standard locations.
.TP
.B \--lang-gettext=LANGUAGE
Explicitely set the language to use in gettext translation. The very
same effect can be achieved by setting the environment variable $LANG
from a launcher script.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LANG, LC_MESSAGES, etc.
See gettext(1) for how the various locale related environment
variables work.


.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B ~/.gm_ctl_client/gm_ctl_client.log
The default log file.
.TP
.B ~/.gm_ctl_client/gm_ctl_client.conf
The default configuration file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.TP
.B gettext(1)
.TP
.B gnumed(1)
.TP
.B http://www.gnumed.org
Users' website
.TP
.B http://www.gnumed.de
German website
.TP
.B http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnumed
source code repository (CVS)
.TP
.B http://wiki.gnumed.de
detailed Wiki-style documentation

.SH BUGS

A lot of functionality is still missing. However, to make up for
that, we deliver a plethora of bugs for your amusement :-)

.SH REVISION

$Source: /home/ncq/Projekte/cvs2git/vcs-mirror/gnumed/gnumed/client/doc/man-pages/gm_ctl_client.1,v $

$Id: gm_ctl_client.1,v 1.1 2007-01-29 11:52:23 ncq Exp $
