.\" ========================================================
.\" license: GPL v2 or later
.\" ========================================================

.TH GNUmed 1 "2020 Mar 11th" "Manual for GNUmed"

.SH NAME
.B GNUmed
- an electronic MEDICAL record software for GP offices

This is not fully featured yet. Use at your own risk.
You have been warned.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnumed
.RB [--quiet|debug]
.RB [--slave]
.RB [--text-domain=TEXTDOMAIN]
.RB [--log-file=FILE]
.RB [--conf-file=FILE]
.RB [--lang-gettext=LANGUAGE]
.RB [--ui=UI-TYPE]
.RB [--wxp=VERSION]
.RB [--tool=TOOL]
.RB [--override-schema-check]
.RB [--local-import]
.RB [--help]
.RB [--version]
.RB [-V]
.RB [-h|?]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GNUmed
is a solution for keeping safe and medically sound electronic
records on a patient's health. It primarily focuses on GP
offices. It is released under the GPL.

GNUmed is written in Python with wxPython/wxWindows. Data is
stored in a PostgreSQL database. Multiple clients can work
with the same database at the same time.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.B \--quiet
Be extra quiet and show only _real_ errors in the log.
.TP
.B \--debug
Pre-set the [debug mode] checkbox in the login dialog
which controls increased verbosity in the log file.

Useful for, well, debugging :-)  Slower, too.
.TP
.B \--slave
Pre-set the [enable remote control] checkbox in the login
dialog to enable the XML-RPC remote control feature.
.TP
.B \--hipaa
Enable HIPAA features with user workflow impact.

Those features which do not affect the workflow of the user
are permanently enabled.
.TP
.B \--text-domain=TEXTDOMAIN
Set this to change the name of the language file to be loaded.
Note, this does not change the directory the file is searched in,
only the name of the file where messages are loaded from. The
standard textdomain is, of course, "gnumed.mo". You need only
specify the base name of the file without the .mo extension.
.TP
.B \--log-file=FILE
Use this to change the name of the log file. The default
log file would be <~/.gnumed/gnumed.log>.
.TP
.B \--conf-file=FILE
Use configuration file FILE instead of searching for it in
standard locations.
.TP
.B \--lang-gettext=LANGUAGE
Explicitly set the language to use in gettext translation. The very
same effect can be achieved by setting the environment variable $LANG
from a launcher script.
.TP
.B \--ui=UI-TYPE
Explicitly set the user interface type. Omitting this argument will
default the interface to wxPython.

Valid values are:

	wxp: wxPython Python client (default)
.\"
.\"	web: CherryPy web client
.TP
.B \--wxp=VERSION
Explicitly request a wxPython major version. Omitting the argument
will default to trying wxPython 3 first, then attempting to fall
back to wxPython 2.

Valid values are:

	2: request wxPython 2

	3: request wxPython 3
.TP
.B \--tool=TOOL
Run the named TOOL instead of a GUI.

Currently implemented tools:

	check_enc_epi_xref: Cross-check that foreign keys values in any given row of any table carrying both of fk_episode and fk_encounter do point to episodes and encounters, respectively, of the very same patient.

	export_pat_emr_structure: Export the EMR structure (issues and episodes) of a patient into a text file.

	check_mimetypes_in_archive: Show mimetypes and related information of all document parts in the archive.

	read_all_rows_of_table: Check readability of all rows of a given table.

.TP
.B \--override-schema-check
Continue loading the client even if the database schema
version and the client software version cannot be verified
to be compatible.
.TP
.B \--skip-update-check
Skip checking for client updates. This is useful during
development or when the update check URL is unavailable.
.TP
.B \--local-import
At startup adjust the PYTHONPATH such that the GNUmed client is
run from a local copy of the source tree rather than from a
proper system-wide installation.
.TP
.B \--version, -V
Show version information about the GNUmed client and the
database it needs.
.TP
.B \--help, -h, or -?
Well, show this help.


.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
 > 0: some error occurred while the GUI client was run
.TP
   0: normal termination of the client
.TP
 < 0: some error occurred while trying to run a console tool
.TP
  -1: an unknown console tool was requested
.TP
< -1: an error occurred while a console tool was run
.TP
-999: hard abort of the client


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LANG, LC_MESSAGES, etc.
See gettext(1) for how the various locale related environment variables work.


.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B ~/etc/gnumed/gnumed-client.conf
The system-wide configuration file.
.TP
.B ~/.gnumed/gnumed.conf
The user-specific configuration file.
.TP
.B ~/.gnumed/gnumed.log
The default log file.



.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.TP
.B https://www.gnumed.de
Detailed Wiki-style documentation
.TP
.B https://www.gnumed.org
Users' website
.TP
.B https://www.gnumed.de
German website
.TP
.B http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnumed
Mailing list home
.TP
.B https://github.org/ncqgm/gnumed
Source code repository (Git)
.TP
.B /usr/share/doc/gnumed/
Local documentation
.TP
.B man -k gm-*
List man pages on gm-* commands.
.TP
.B gettext(1)


.SH BUGS

A lot of functionality is still missing. To make up for
that, there's bugs here and there for you to report :-)

Use at your own risk. You have been warned. Take proper backups !
